Kubernetes Ingress is an API object that provides routing rules to manage external users' access to the services in a Kubernetes cluster, typically via HTTPS/HTTP.
With Ingress, you can easily set up rules for routing traffic without creating a bunch of Load Balancers or exposing each service on the node. This makes it the best
option to use in production environments. Ingress is made up of an Ingress API object and the Ingress Controller.Kubernetes Ingress is an API object that describes the
desired state for exposing services to the outside of the Kubernetes cluster. An Ingress Controller is essential because it is the actual implementation of the Ingress 
API. An Ingress Controller reads and processes the Ingress Resource information and usually runs as pods within the Kubernetes cluster.  

An Ingress provides the following:
Externally reachable URLs for applications deployed in Kubernetes clusters
Name-based virtual host and URI-based routing support
Load balancing rules and traffic, as well as SSL termination

If Kubernetes Ingress is the API object that provides routing rules to manage external access to services, Ingress Controller is the actual implementation of the 
Ingress API. The Ingress Controller is usually a load balancer for routing external traffic to your Kubernetes cluster and is responsible for L4-L7 Network Services. 

Ingress
Ingress enables you to consolidate the traffic-routing rules into a single resource and runs as part of a Kubernetes cluster. Some reasons Kubernetes Ingress is the preferred option for exposing a service in a production environment include the following:

Traffic routing is controlled by rules defined on the Ingress Resource.
Ingress is part of the Kubernetes cluster and runs as pods.
An external Load Balancer is expensive, and you need to manage this outside the Kubernetes cluster. Kubernetes Ingress is managed from inside the cluster.
In production environments, you typically use Ingress to expose applications to the Internet. An application is accessed from the Internet via Port 80 (HTTP) 
or Port 443 (HTTPS), and Ingress is an object that allows access to your Kubernetes services from outside the Kubernetes cluster. 
